### 2013-03-12

Greenlet is a light-weight cooperatively-scheduled execution unit.

To start a new greenlet, pass the target function and its arguments to Greenlet constructor and call start()

Wait until the greenlet finishes or timeout expires. Return None regardless.

Link greenlet’s completion to callable or another greenlet.

If receiver is a callable then it will be called with this instance as an argument once this greenlet’s dead. A callable is called in its own greenlet.

If receiver is a greenlet then an LinkedExited exception will be raised in it once this greenlet’s dead.

If receiver is None, link to the current greenlet.

Always asynchronous, unless receiver is a current greenlet and the result is ready. If this greenlet is already dead, then notification will performed in this loop iteration as soon as this greenlet switches to the hub.

A special exception that kills the greenlet silently.

When a greenlet raises GreenletExit or a subclass, the traceback is not printed and the greenlet is considered successful. The exception instance is available under value property as if it was returned by the greenlet, not raised.

seconds may be specified as an integer, or a float if fractional seconds are desired. Calling sleep with seconds of 0 is the canonical way of expressing a cooperative yield.

- fractional: 部分的
- desired: 渴望，愿望
- canonical: 正规的，经典的
- cooperative: 合作的，并用程序

Kill greenlet asynchronously. The current greenlet is not unscheduled.

Note, that gevent.Greenlet.kill() method does the same and more. However, MAIN greenlet - the one that exists initially - does not have kill() method so you have to use this function.

### 2013-03-14

This is definitely subjective, but I'd like to try to avoid it becoming argumentative. I think it could be an interesting question if people treat it appropriately.

The idea for this question came from the comment thread from my answer to the "What are five things you hate about your favorite language?" question. I contended that classes in C# should be sealed by default - I won't put my reasoning in the question, but I might write a fuller explanation as an answer to this question. I was surprised at the heat of the discussion in the comments (25 comments currently).

So, what contentious opinions do you hold? I'd rather avoid the kind of thing which ends up being pretty religious with relatively little basis (e.g. brace placing) but examples might include things like "unit testing isn't actually terribly helpful" or "public fields are okay really". The important thing (to me, anyway) is that you've got reasons behind your opinions.

Please present your opinion and reasoning - I would encourage people to vote for opinions which are well-argued and interesting, whether or not you happen to agree with them.

- definitely: 一定，肯定
- subjective: 自觉的
- argumentative:争辩的，辩论的
