### 2013-01-07

If you use PyMongo, 10gen's official MongoDB driver for Python, I want to ensure you understand how it manages sockets and threads, and I want to brag about performance improvements in PyMongo 2.2, which we plan to release next week.

- improvements : 提高，改进

Each PyMongo Connection object includes a connection pool (a pool of sockets) to minimize the cost of reconnecting. If you do two operations (e.g., two find()s) on a Connection, it creates a socket for the first find(), then reuses that socket for the second.

- minimize: 最小化

When sockets are returned to the pool, the pool checks if it has more than max_pool_size spare sockets, and if so, it closes the extra sockets. By default max_pool_size is 10.

- extra: 额外的

What if multiple Python threads share a Connection? A possible implementation would be for each thread to get a random socket from the pool when needed, and return it when done. But consider the following code. It updates a count of visitors to a web page, then displays the number of visitors on that web page including this visit:

- implementation: 方法，实现方法
- consider：考虑
- visitors：访问者

Since PyMongo defaults to unsafe writes—that is, it does not ask the server to acknowledge its inserts and updates—it will send the update message to the server and then instantly send the find_one, then await the result. If PyMongo gave out sockets to threads at random, then the following sequence could occur:

- Since: 因为
- acknowledge: 承认，告知收到
- instantly: 立即
- gave out: 公布，发表
- occur: 发生

This thread gets a socket, which I'll call socket 1, from the pool.
The thread sends the update message to MongoDB on socket 1. The thread does not ask for nor await a response.
The thread returns socket 1 to the pool.
The thread asks for a socket again, and gets a different one: socket 2.
The thread sends the find_one message to MongoDB on socket 2.
MongoDB happens to read from socket 2 first, and executes the find_one.
Finally, MongoDB reads the update message from socket 1 and executes it.

- executes:执行

In this case, the count displayed to the visitor wouldn't include this visit.

I know what you're thinking: just do the find_one first, add one to it, and display it to the user. Then send the update to MongoDB to increment the counter. Or use findAndModify to update the counter and get its new value in one round trip. Those are great solutions, but then I would have no excuse to explain requests to you.

- trip: 旅程
- excuse: 成为...的理由，原谅
- explain: 说明，阐明，解释

Maybe you're thinking of a different fix: use update(safe=True). That would work, as well, with the added advantage that you'd know if the update failed, for example because MongoDB's disk is full, or you violated a unique index. But a safe update comes with a latency cost: you must send the update, wait for the acknowledgement, then send the find_one and wait for the response. In a tight loop the extra latency is significant.

- advantage: 优点，长处，优势
- violated: 违反
- latency: 潜伏，潜在
- tight: 紧密的
- significant: 重大的，有意义的

PyMongo solves this problem by automatically assigning a socket to each thread, when the thread first requests one. The socket is stored in a thread-local variable within the connection pool. Since MongoDB processes messages on any single socket in order, using a single socket per thread guarantees that in our example code, update is processed before find_one, so find_one's result includes the current visit.

- solves: 解释，说明
- automatically: 自动


### 2013-01-11

I sometimes peruse the ReST questions of stackoverflow.com. Many times I see questions about authentication. There are many options (Basic HTTP Auth, Digest HTTP Auth, OAuth, OAuth Wrap, etc.) however when security is of importance, I like to recommend client side certificates. This is the route our team at ShowClix chose when implementing our API.

- peruse: 熟读，精读
- importance: 重要性

When first implementing the API Authentication, we were using Apache for our ReST API Servers. It took some serious google-fu and tinkering to get Apache cooperating with the client-side certs and passing that info into our PHP App layer. I remember it being a semi-painful process.

- serious：重大的，危险的
- tinkering: 拙劣的工人，拙劣的修整
- cooperating: 合作，配合

Lately, I've become a huge fan of nginx. Its clean, familiar config syntax and speed make it a great alternative for Apache in many cases. Its reverse proxy capabilities are quite nice as well. So, I thought I'd give client-side cert authentication a shot in nginx. Whereas a quick search for "Client Side Certs in Apache" yielded a few relevant results, a similar search for nginx yielded no results, so I figured I'd share here.

- Lately: 近来
- alternative: 办法，出路
- capabilities: 能力，才能
- Whereas: 然而
- relevant: 有关的A
- figured：标明数字的，图解的


Creating and Signing Your Certs

- Signing: 电子签名

This is SSL, so you'll need an cert-key pair for you/the server, the api users/the client and a CA pair. You will be the CA in this case (usually a role played by VeriSign, thawte, GoDaddy, etc.), signing your client's certs. There are plenty of tutorials out there on creating and signing certificates, so I'll leave the details on this to someone else and just quickly show a sample here to give a complete tutorial. NOTE: This is just a quick sample of creating certs and not intended for production.

- plenty: 丰富的，充分的
- tutorials: 指南

# Create the CA Key and Certificate for signing Client Certs

# We're self signing our own server cert here.  This is a no-no in production.

### 2013-01-11

The libevent API provides a mechanism to execute a callback function when a specific event occurs on a file descriptor or after a timeout has been reached. Furthermore, libevent also support callbacks due to signals or regular timeouts.
libevent is meant to replace the event loop found in event driven network servers. An application just needs to call event_dispatch() and then add or remove events dynamically without having to change the event loop.

- mechanism: 设备，机构，结构
- reached: 能够到的范围
- Furthermore: 此外
- dynamically 动态的

Currently, libevent supports /dev/poll, kqueue(2), event ports, POSIX select(2), Windows select(), poll(2), and epoll(4). The internal event mechanism is completely independent of the exposed event API, and a simple update of libevent can provide new functionality without having to redesign the applications. As a result, Libevent allows for portable application development and provides the most scalable event notification mechanism available on an operating system. Libevent can also be used for multi-threaded applications, either by isolating each event_base so that only a single thread accesses it, or by locked access to a single shared event_base. Libevent should compile on Linux, *BSD, Mac OS X, Solaris, Windows, and more.

- Currently: 当前
- independent: 独立的，自主的
- exposed: 无掩藏的,暴露的，显露的
- portable: 便携式的

Libevent additionally provides a sophisticated framework for buffered network IO, with support for sockets, filters, rate-limiting, SSL, zero-copy file transmission, and IOCP. Libevent includes support for several useful protocols, including DNS, HTTP, and a minimal RPC framework.

More information about event notification mechanisms for network servers can be found on Dan Kegel's "The C10K problem" web page.

- sophisticated: 复杂的，尖端的，高端的，微妙的

Standard usage

Every program that uses Libevent must inclurde the <event2/event.h> header, and pass the -levent flag to the linker. (You can instead link -levent_core if you only want the main event and buffered IO-based code, and don't want to link any protocol code.)

Library setup

Before you call any other Libevent functions, you need to set up the library. If you're going to use Libevent from multiple threads in a multithreaded application, you need to initialize thread support -- typically by using evthread_use_pthreads() or evthread_use_windows_threads(). See <event2/thread.h> for more information.

This is also the point where you can replace Libevent's memory management functions with event_set_mem_functions, and enable debug mode with event_enable_debug_mode().

- typically: 往往，典型的

Creating an event base

Next, you need to create an event_base structure, using event_base_new() or event_base_new_with_config(). The event_base is responsible for keeping track of which events are "pending" (that is to say, being watched to see if they become active) and which events are "active". Every event is associated with a single event_base.

- responsible: 负责任的，可靠的
- associated: 发生联系,:TODO

Event notification

For each file descriptor that you wish to monitor, you must create an event structure with event_new(). (You may also declare an event structure and call event_assign() to initialize the members of the structure.) To enable notification, you add the structure to the list of monitored events by calling event_add(). The event structure must remain allocated as long as it is active, so it should generally be allocated on the heap.


Dispaching evets.

Finally, you call event_base_dispatch() to loop and dispatch events. You can also use event_base_loop() for more fine-grained control.

Currently, only one thread can be dispatching a given event_base at a time. If you want to run events in multiple threads at once, you can either have a single event_base whose events add work to a work queue, or you can create multiple event_base objects.

- grained：颗粒的
- at a time: 一次

I/O Buffers

Libevent provides a buffered I/O abstraction on top of the regular event callbacks. This abstraction is called a bufferevent. A bufferevent provides input and output buffers that get filled and drained automatically. The user of a buffered event no longer deals directly with the I/O, but instead is reading from input and writing to output buffers.

Once initialized via bufferevent_socket_new(), the bufferevent structure can be used repeatedly with bufferevent_enable() and bufferevent_disable(). Instead of reading and writing directly to a socket, you would call bufferevent_read() and bufferevent_write().

When read enabled the bufferevent will try to read from the file descriptor and call the read callback. The write callback is executed whenever the output buffer is drained below the write low watermark, which is 0 by default.

See <event2/bufferevent*.h> for more information.

- abstraction: 抽象
- drained: 排水的，排干的

### 2013-01-17

One http_parser object is used per TCP connection. Initialize the struct using http_parser_init() and set the callbacks. That might look something like this for a request parser:

HTTP needs to know where the end of the stream is. For example, sometimes servers send responses without Content-Length and expect the client to consume input (for the body) until EOF. To tell http_parser about EOF, give 0 as the forth parameter to http_parser_execute(). Callbacks and errors can still be encountered during an EOF, so one must still be prepared to receive them.

- prepared: 有准备的
- consume: 消费
- encountered: 偶然遇见

Scalar valued message information such as status_code, method, and the HTTP version are stored in the parser structure. This data is only temporally stored in http_parser and gets reset on each new message. If this information is needed later, copy it out of the structure during the headers_complete callback.

- temporally：时间上，随时间的

The parser decodes the transfer-encoding for both requests and responses transparently. That is, a chunked encoding is decoded before being sent to the on_body callback.

- transparently: 透明的

HTTP supports upgrading the connection to a different protocol. An increasingly common example of this is the Web Socket protocol which sends a request like

- increasingly: 不断增加的，日益


To support this, the parser will treat this as a normal HTTP message without a body. Issuing both on_headers_complete and on_message_complete callbacks. However http_parser_execute() will stop parsing at the end of the headers and return.

- treat: 待，看待
- Issuing: 发行，发表

The user is expected to check if parser->upgrade has been set to 1 after http_parser_execute() returns. Non-HTTP data begins at the buffer supplied offset by the return value of http_parser_execute().

- supplied: 源，供给，供应

During the http_parser_execute() call, the callbacks set in http_parser_settings will be executed. The parser maintains state and never looks behind, so buffering the data is not necessary. If you need to save certain data for later usage, you can do that from the callbacks.

- look behind :回头看
- necessary: 必要的
- certain: 某，某一

There are two types of callbacks:

notification typedef int (*http_cb) (http_parser*); Callbacks: on_message_begin, on_headers_complete, on_message_complete.
data typedef int (*http_data_cb) (http_parser*, const char *at, size_t length); Callbacks: (requests only) on_uri, (common) on_header_field, on_header_value, on_body;
Callbacks must return 0 on success. Returning a non-zero value indicates error to the parser, making it exit immediately.

- immediately: 立即

In case you parse HTTP message in chunks (i.e. read() request line from socket, parse, read half headers, parse, etc) your data callbacks may be called more than once. Http-parser guarantees that data pointer is only valid for the lifetime of callback. You can also read() into a heap allocated buffer to avoid copying memory around if this fits your application.

- guarantees: 保证
- avoid: 避免
- fits: 适合于

Reading headers may be a tricky task if you read/parse headers partially. Basically, you need to remember whether last header callback was field or value and apply following logic:

tricky: 困难的

(on_header_field and on_header_value shortened to on_h_*)
 ------------------------ ------------ --------------------------------------------
| State (prev. callback) | Callback   | Description/action                         |
 ------------------------ ------------ --------------------------------------------
| nothing (first call)   | on_h_field | Allocate new buffer and copy callback data |
|                        |            | into it                                    |
 ------------------------ ------------ --------------------------------------------
| value                  | on_h_field | New header started.                        |
|                        |            | Copy current name,value buffers to headers |
|                        |            | list and allocate new buffer for new name  |
 ------------------------ ------------ --------------------------------------------
| field                  | on_h_field | Previous name continues. Reallocate name   |
|                        |            | buffer and append callback data to it      |
 ------------------------ ------------ --------------------------------------------
| field                  | on_h_value | Value for current header started. Allocate |
|                        |            | new buffer and copy callback data to it    |
 ------------------------ ------------ --------------------------------------------
| value                  | on_h_value | Value continues. Reallocate value buffer   |
|                        |            | and append callback data to it             |
 ------------------------ ------------ --------------------------------------------

- Previous : 过去的

A simplistic zero-copy URL parser is provided as http_parser_parse_url(). Users of this library may wish to use it to parse URLs constructed from consecutive on_url callbacks.

- simplistic: 过于简单的
- provided: 假设
- consecutive: 连续的

See examples of reading in headers:

libuv is a new platform layer for Node. Its purpose is to abstract IOCP on Windows and epoll/kqueue/event ports/etc. on Unix systems. We intend to eventually contain all platform differences in this library.

- purpose: 目的，宗旨
- intend: 想，打算
- eventually: 最终，结果

Features
Non-blocking TCP sockets
Non-blocking named pipes
UDP
Timers
Child process spawning
Asynchronous DNS via uv_getaddrinfo.
Asynchronous file system APIs uv_fs_*
High resolution time uv_hrtime
Current executable path look up uv_exepath
Thread pool scheduling uv_queue_work
ANSI escape code controlled TTY uv_tty_t
File system events Currently supports inotify, ReadDirectoryChangesW and kqueue. Event ports in the near future. uv_fs_event_t
IPC and socket sharing between processes uv_write2

- resolution: 决断，解决
- executable: 可执行的
- inotify: TODO
- future: 将来

For GCC (including MinGW) there are two methods building: via normal makefiles or via GYP. GYP is a meta-build system which can generate MSVS, Makefile, and XCode backends. It is best used for integration into other projects. The old (more stable) system is using Makefiles.

- integration: 集成,整合

To build with Visual Studio run the vcbuilds.bat file which will checkout the GYP code into build/gyp and generate the uv.sln and related files.

Windows users can also build from cmd-line using msbuild. This is done by running vcbuild.bat from Visual Studio command prompt.

To have GYP generate build script for another system you will need to checkout GYP into the project tree manually:

To build via Makefile simply execute:

Note for Linux users: compile your project with -D_GNU_SOURCE when you include uv.h. GYP builds take care of that automatically. If you use autotools, add a AC_GNU_SOURCE declaration to your configure.ac.

Supported Platforms
Microsoft Windows operating systems since Windows XP SP2. It can be built with either Visual Studio or MinGW.

Linux 2.6 using the GCC toolchain.

MacOS using the GCC or XCode toolchain.

Solaris 121 and later using GCC toolchain.

Introduction

This ‘book’ is a small set of tutorials about using libuv as a high performance evented I/O library which offers the same API on Windows and Unix.

- offers: 提供

It is meant to cover the main areas of libuv, but is not a comprehensive reference discussing every function and data structure. The official libuv documentation is included directly in the libuv header file.

- comprehensive: 广泛的
- official: 官方的

This book is still a work in progress, so sections may be incomplete, but I hope you will enjoy it as it grows.

- incomplete: 不完全的

Who this book is for

If you are reading this book, you are either:

a systems programmer, creating low-level programs such as daemons or network services and clients. You have found that the event loop approach is well suited for your application and decided to use libuv.

a node.js module writer, who wants to wrap platform APIs written in C or C++ with a set of (a)synchronous APIs that are exposed to JavaScript. You will use libuv purely in the context of node.js. For this you will require some other resources as the book does not cover parts specific to v8/node.js.
This book assumes that you are comfortable with the C programming language.

- exposed: 暴露，显露的
- purely：纯粹的
- assumes: 假定，想象
- comfortable: 舒服，舒坦

Background

The node.js project began in 2009 as a JavaScript environment decoupled from the browser. Using Google’s V8 and Marc Lehmann’s libev, node.js combined a model of I/O – evented – with a language that was well suited to the style of programming; due to the way it had been shaped by browsers. As node.js grew in popularity, it was important to make it work on Windows, but libev ran only on Unix. The Windows equivalent of kernel event notification mechanisms like kqueue or (e)poll is IOCP. libuv is an abstraction around libev or IOCP depending on the platform, providing users an API based on libev.

- decoupled: 解偶,断开联系
- combined: 化合的
- equivalent: 等值的，相等的
- providing: 假如,TODO
- shaped: 形状

Code

All the code from this book is included as part of the source of the book on Github. Clone/Download the book and run make in the code/ folder to compile all the examples. This book and the code is based on libuv version node-v0.9.0 and a version is included in the libuv/ folder which will be compiled automatically.

Basics of libuv

libuv enforces an asynchronous, event-driven style of programming. Its core job is to provide an event loop and callback based notifications of I/O and other activities. libuv offers core utilities like timers, non-blocking networking support, asynchronous file system access, child processes and more.

- enforces: 执行，实施
Event loops

In event-driven programming, an application expresses interest in certain events and respond to them when they occur. The responsibility of gathering events from the operating system or monitoring other sources of events is handled by libuv, and the user can register callbacks to be invoked when an event occurs. The event-loop usually keeps running forever. In pseudocode:

- expresses: 表现:TODO
- interest: 趣味
- certain: 某
- responsibility: 责任，责任心
- gathering: 搜集
- pseudocode: 伪码

Some examples of events are:

File is ready for writing
A socket has data ready to be read
A timer has timed out
This event loop is encapsulated by uv_run() – the end-all function when using libuv.

- encapsulated: 封装

The most common activity of systems programs is to deal with input and output, rather than a lot of number-crunching. The problem with using conventional input/output functions (read, fprintf, etc.) is that they are blocking. The actual write to a hard disk or reading from a network, takes a disproportionately long time compared to the speed of the processor. The functions don’t return until the task is done, so that your program is doing nothing. For programs which require high performance this is a major roadblock as other activities and other I/O operations are kept waiting.

- deal: 处理，应付
- rather：相反的
- number-crunching: 数值计算
- conventional: 一般，普遍的
- disproportionately: 不相称的
- roadblock: 路障，障碍

One of the standard solutions is to use threads. Each blocking I/O operation is started in a separate thread (or in a thread pool). When the blocking function gets invoked in the thread, the processor can schedule another thread to run, which actually needs the CPU.

- standard: 标准的
- actually: 确实，其实

The approach followed by libuv uses another style, which is the asynchronous, non-blocking style. Most modern operating systems provide event notification subsystems. For example, a normal read call on a socket would block until the sender actually sent something. Instead, the application can request the operating system to watch the socket and put an event notification in the queue. The application can inspect the events at its convenience (perhaps doing some number crunching before to use the processor to the maximum) and grab the data. It is asynchronous because the application expressed interest at one point, then used the data at another point (in time and space). It is non-blocking because the application process was free to do other tasks. This fits in well with libuv’s event-loop approach, since the operating system events can be treated as just another libuv event. The non-blocking ensures that other events can continue to be handled as fast they come in [1].

- inspect: 检查，检阅
- convenience: 设备，工具: TODO
- grab: 抓取
- fits: 适合的
- treated: 对待，处理

Note
How the I/O is run in the background is not of our concern, but due to the way our computer hardware works, with the thread as the basic unit of the processor, libuv and OSes will usually run background/worker threads and/or polling to perform tasks in a non-blocking manner.

- due: 应给予的 :TODO
- concern: 关心的
- perform: 进行
- manner: 风俗

Bert Belder, one of the libuv core developers has a small video explaining the architecture of libuv and its background. If you have no prior experience with either libuv or libev, it is a quick, useful watch.

- explaining: 阐释，说明
- prior: 以前
- experience：经验

With the basics out of the way, lets write our first libuv program. It does nothing, except start a loop which will exit immediately.

- immediately: 立马，马上

This program quits immediately because it has no events to process. A libuv event loop has to be told to watch out for events using the various API functions.

- various: 不同的

A default loop is provided by libuv and can be accessed using uv_default_loop(). You should use this loop if you only want a single loop.

Note
node.js uses the default loop as its main loop. If you are writing bindings you should be aware of this.

- aware: 知道的，意识到的

A default loop is provided by libuv and can be accessed using uv_default_loop(). You should use this loop if you only want a single loop.

Note
node.js uses the default loop as its main loop. If you are writing bindings you should be aware of this.

Watchers¶

Watchers are how users of libuv express interest in particular events. Watchers are opaque structs named as uv_TYPE_t where type signifies what the watcher is used for. A full list of watchers supported by libuv is:

- particular: 特定的，详细的
- opaque: 不透明的
- signifies: 表示，代表

All watcher structs are subclasses of uv_handle_t and often referred to as handles in libuv and in this text.

- referred：借助，参考

Watchers are setup by a corresponding:

- corresponding: 有关，相关的

me watcher initialization functions require the loop as a first argument.

Callbacks are functions which are called by libuv whenever an event the watcher is interested in has taken place. Application specific logic will usually be implemented in the callback. For example, an IO watcher’s callback will receive the data read from a file, a timer callback will be triggered on timeout and so on.

- implemented: 实现
- whenever: 每逢
- taken place: 发生，举行

Idling: TODO

Here is an example of using a watcher. An idle watcher’s callback is repeatedly called. There are some deeper semantics, discussed in Utilities, but we’ll ignore them for now. Let’s just use an idle watcher to look at the watcher life cycle and see how uv_run() will now block because a watcher is present. The idle watcher is stopped when the count is reached and uv_run() exits since no event watchers are active.

- repeatedly: 反复的
- deeper: 深的
- semantics: 语义
- present： 现在的
- reached: 能够够到的范围

The libuv filesystem operations are different from socket operations. Socket operations use the non-blocking operations provided by the operating system. Filesystem operations use blocking functions internally, but invoke these functions in a thread pool and notify watchers registered with the event loop when application interaction is required.

- internally: 内部的
- interaction: 相互作用的

All filesystem functions have two forms - synchronous and asynchronous.

The synchronous forms automatically get called (and block) if no callback is specified. The return value of functions is the equivalent Unix return value (usually 0 on success, -1 on error).

The asynchronous form is called when a callback is passed and the return value is 0.

- equivalent: 等值的

A file descriptor is obtained using

- obtained：得到，获得

int uv_fs_open(uv_loop_t* loop, uv_fs_t* req, const char* path, int flags, int mode, uv_fs_cb cb)

flags and mode are standard Unix flags. libuv takes care of converting to the appropriate Windows flags.

File descriptors are closed using

int uv_fs_close(uv_loop_t* loop, uv_fs_t* req, uv_file file, uv_fs_cb cb)
Filesystem operation callbacks have the signature:

void callback(uv_fs_t* req);
Let’s see a simple implementation of cat. We start with registering a callback for when the file is opened:

- appropriate: 适当的

he result field of a uv_fs_t is the file descriptor in case of the uv_fs_open callback. If the file is successfully opened, we start reading it.

Warning
The uv_fs_req_cleanup() function must be called to free internal memory allocations in libuv.

In the case of a read call, you should pass an initialized buffer which will be filled with data before the read callback is triggered.

In the read callback the result field is 0 for EOF, -1 for error and the number of bytes read on success.

Here you see a common pattern when writing asynchronous programs. The uv_fs_close() call is performed synchronously. Usually tasks which are one-off, or are done as part of the startup or shutdown stage are performed synchronously, since we are interested in fast I/O when the program is going about its primary task and dealing with multiple I/O sources. For solo tasks the performance difference usually is negligible and may lead to simpler code.

We can generalize the pattern that the actual return value of the original system call is stored in uv_fs_t.result.

Filesystem writing is similarly simple using uv_fs_write(). Your callback will be triggered after the write is complete. In our case the callback simply drives the next read. Thus read and write proceed in lockstep via callbacks.

- stage: 级 :TODO
- one-off : 一次性的
- going about: 四处走动，着手
- dealing: 处理
- negligible: 可忽略的
- lead to: 导致
- generalize: 推广
- proceed: 继续做下去
- lockstep: 紧密步伐
- via: 从，通过
